---
title: "Insights into the Relationship between Temperature Variation and NAPL Removal during In Situ Thermal Remediation of Soil in the Presence of NAPL–Water Co-boiling: A Two-Dimensional Visualized Sandbox Study"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
date: 2024-12-09
venue: 'Environmental Science & Technology'
paperurl: 'https://pubs.acs.org/doi/abs/10.1021/acs.est.4c09388'
permalink: 'https://pubs.acs.org/doi/abs/10.1021/acs.est.4c09388'
excerpt: 'The results reveal semiquantitatively the impact of different initial NAPL amounts and spatial distributions on temperature variations, by using a two-dimensional visualized sandbox integrated with real-time image processing and an array of temperature sensors to monitor the NAPL removal and temperature variation.'
citation: 'Xin-Yu Xu, Nan Hu*, Qing Wang, Xiao-Dong Li, Zi-Tao Yu, Xin Song, and Li-Wu Fan*, Insights into the Relationship between Temperature Variation and NAPL Removal during In Situ Thermal Remediation of Soil in the Presence of NAPL-Water Co-boiling: A Two-Dimensional Visualized Sandbox Study, Environmental Science and Technology, 58(51), 22594-22602 (2024).'

---
Thermal remediation effectively treats sites contaminated with nonaqueous phase liquids (NAPL) by heating soil. A key process is the co-boiling at the water–NAPL interface, which lowers the boiling point due to combined vapor pressures, potentially reducing energy needs. However, determining the optimal end time for heating is challenging due to the invisible nature of underground NAPL, often resulting in excessive energy use. The initial NAPL pool size and distance from the heat source influence the spatiotemporal evolution of the NAPL–water interface, defining three zones: the co-boiling equilibrium zone, a nonequilibrium zone, and an unaffected zone. The temperature data collected by fixed temperature sensors can reflect the spatiotemporal evolution of these zones, offering valuable insights into NAPL removal. This study tackles these challenges using a two-dimensional visualized sandbox integrated with real-time image processing and an array of temperature sensors to monitor the NAPL removal and temperature variation. The results reveal semiquantitatively the impact of different initial NAPL amounts and spatial distributions on temperature variations. An optimized strategy is proposed for temperature sensor positioning, and a qualitative relationship is established between the temperature increase and NAPL removal. These findings can enhance our understanding of subsurface temperature dynamics, supporting more efficient, decarbonized remediation practices.
